[THEME MUSIC]
>> EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired Special Agent who served
in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO/ET-related
intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
five years of missing time.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>> RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>> EMERY: So who was
Lieutenant Gary Anderson?
>> DOTY: Lieutenant Gary
Anderson was a nuclear weapons
technician in the
United States Air Force.
He started his career as
a young second Lieutenant
in the Air Force, and he went
through Nuclear Weapons School.
And his first assignment
was to McChord Air Force
Base in Washington.
>> EMERY: And what
were his duties there?
>> DOTY: He was a supervisor
within the nuclear weapons
maintenance section of the
three 18th Fighter Interceptor
Squadron.
His job was to supervise
other nuclear technicians,
maintain the nuclear weapons
that were stored at McChord Air
Force Base during
that time period,
and those weapons were
air to air rockets.
They're called Genies, and
they contained a W25 warhead,
which was a 1.7 kiloton yield.
>> EMERY: Right.
And where was Lieutenant
Anderson on August 11, 1970?
>> DOTY: Lieutenant Anderson
was inside the maintenance bay
inside the weapons
storage area of the base.
And this is a very secure
area because nuclear weapons
are stored in there.
The maintenance area is where
they bring the nuclear weapons
in to perform
maintenance, and they
call it limited life
component maintenance,
meaning there's certain
components that they have
to change out periodically.
And they also prepare
them for pre-flight,
meaning when they are
placed on the aircraft,
the aircraft's during that time
period with the F-106 fighters,
and when the weapons were
taken off and brought back
to the storage area, they
had to go through maintenance
for a maintenance check to
make sure they weren't armed,
and he was working inside that
maintenance facility on August
11, 1970.
>> EMERY: So what details
are available leading up
to the circumstances of
Anderson's contact experience?
>> DOTY: Well, he was inside the
maintenance facility on August
11, 1970.
He was working with four other
nuclear weapons technicians.
He was supervising
them while they
were performing
general maintenance
on the nuclear weapon.
And he walked over to a toolbox
to get a tool, at which time
there was a bright light that
was directed right over top
of him, and the other
four technicians witnessed
him then disappearing.
So now we have a problem.
The supervisor inside a nuclear
weapon maintenance facility
disappeared.
So they immediately-- the
technicians immediately
notified the next
commander in the chain
of command, who was a captain.
The captain responded.
The technicians informed
him that Lieutenant Anderson
was standing over there.
There was a bolt--
they thought lightning at first.
They came through, and now
he's not there anymore.
There was only one
way in and one way out
of this igloo-type area.
>> EMERY: Right.
>> DOTY: Through the door,
going in and going out.
They didn't see him go out.
There weren't any cameras or
anything in the facilities
back in those days.
So the captain immediately
notified the commander--
the base commander.
They started a search.
Security police was involved in
a search of inside the weapons
storage area and
all over the base.
They figured he had
to be someplace.
And then eventually,
OSI was brought in.
>> EMERY: What was
their emotional state?
I mean, this-- this
doesn't happen every day
on these nuclear bases.
>> DOTY: That's true.
And these four technicians,
some of them were young.
They were under 20 years old.
I think there was
one that was 19.
One had just gotten
in-- hadn't been there
for more than a few months.
He just got out of
a technical school,
and there were two more
senior technicians.
And this happened only a few
feet away from where they were.
And they were shocked,
totally shocked.
And the senior person, I
believe he was a staff sergeant,
he reacted first by
going over to look
at where Lieutenant
Anderson had been,
and then realized he's
not there anymore.
And they started looking
around to try to figure out
what happened to him.
The first thought, the
Staff Sergeant said,
was somehow a bolt
of lightning came
through this very thick,
concreted, reinforced structure,
which would have been
almost impossible.
But then he looked around
to try to figure out maybe
it was something
else that occurred,
and Anderson went
to hide someplace.
But they are inside
this igloo and there
wasn't any place to hide.
>> EMERY: Well, take
me step by step.
You're an OSI agent.
What is that protocol?
After you're contacted, you
guys are doing the interviews,
where did it go from there?
>> DOTY: Well, they
would have two teams,
one going in and interviewing
the witnesses and another team,
evidence collection team--
some within that team would be
specially trained to collect
evidentiary information.
And what they did find was
one burnt mark on the ceiling.
There wasn't a hole, but
there was a burnt mark.
And, of course, analyzed
this burnt mark.
They took scrapings
and evidence,
but the burnt mark was
just on the ceiling.
There wasn't anything
on the floor.
>> EMERY: That's a
concrete ceiling, correct?
>> DOTY: Yeah, concrete
ceiling and concrete floor.
And so they went outside
and looked on top of the--
top of this building,
which is dirt and they
didn't see any
burnt mark up there.
So they were very suspicious
of why this burnt mark was only
on the ceiling and not on the
floor or not on the outside.
>> EMERY: Is it possible that
this light came from within
the bunker?
>> DOTY: Yeah, I think
they thought that.
But there wasn't anything.
They couldn't find
anything inside that would
have generated that much light.
And of course, the
big question is, where
did Lieutenant Anderson go?
There was no exit points.
These maintenance areas are
built for security purposes.
And just in case
this weapon exploded,
not the nuclear part, but
the conventional part,
because remember, it's a
sphere and the interior
is the nuclear part.
The exterior is the
conventional part.
The conventional part
crushes the nuclear part,
which causes the detonation.
So if there was
just an explosion
of the conventional
explosives, it
would be maintained
in this area.
So they knew he
couldn't go beyond.
They would-- he would
have had to fake some way
to get beyond through
that one door,
past these nuclear technicians.
>> EMERY: Sure.
Yeah.
>> DOTY: And they
couldn't figure it out.
So what they did was
they immediately got--
contacted the FBI and
with the FBI and with OSI,
they went out to
search his apartment.
Lieutenant Anderson was
single, had never been married.
He'd been in the Air
Force for 3 and 1/2 years.
His car was parked at a
parking area on the base,
and it was a 1967
Chevrolet Camaro.
And so they took the car.
It wasn't missing.
It was still there.
So he didn't drive it away.
So how did he get away
if he'd planned this?
They also checked
the perimeter area.
This nuclear weapon storage area
had a very intensive security
system around it, because it
had nuclear weapons in it.
And outside that is
the base perimeter.
And the base perimeter
also had security.
They checked the
security people.
security police.
They checked the alarm
systems that were out
on the outer perimeter.
Nothing activated.
So he didn't go out through
any of the fences or the gates.
Now, there's only one way into
the nuclear weapon storage area,
and that's through a man gate.
A security police have--
you have to go through and
you have to submit a badge
and to get into this area.
And that's the only
way in and one way out.
And in this building, there's
only one way in and one way out.
>> EMERY: Sure.
>> DOTY: So he didn't
get through the gate,
and he didn't get through
past those technicians.
>> EMERY: That must have
been really discombobulating
for them.
Like, what-- after
that, then what--
what was their conclusion?
>> DOTY: They didn't know.
What happened after they
searched his apartment, which
was off base in Tacoma.
And they took his car and they--
I believe they took
that to the FBI office,
and they basically
took it apart to see
if there was anything in
there that would maybe
indicate he was a spy.
He was committing espionage.
He maybe tried to take something
out of the storage area.
Another thing they did was
they did an immediate inventory
of everything
classified, the tools,
the documents, the
restricted data manuals
for that particular
weapon system.
They want to make sure nothing
was missing out of that
and there wasn't
anything missing.
Everything was accounted for.
So now they have a dilemma.
What do they do?
Where did this guy go?
So, OSI-- the base OSI
immediately turned us over
to special projects OSI.
They did the super
secret and the--
we call it abnormal
investigations such as UFOs
and things like that.
But they were still
concerned that he escaped,
figured out how to do
this because he was a spy.
So then he started an
espionage investigation,
and that lasted for a good year.
>> EMERY: Oh, my.
>> DOTY: But at the end--
>> EMERY: Still nothing.
>> DOTY: Still nothing.
>> EMERY: So he disappeared
in this flash of light.
Now, were any of the
other technicians affected
by this light in any way?
>> DOTY: Well, after
the interview with OSI,
these four technicians were
transported to the Army Madigan
General Hospital, which
is next to McChord.
They were transported
over there,
and they were fully
examined for radiation,
for any other type of
injuries or illnesses
and they all passed.
They didn't-- they weren't
suffering from any radiation
sickness or any other illnesses
or medical conditions.
So they were pretty
much cleared,
with the exception of the
fact that they were upset
and psychologically traumatized
by what they witnessed
their Lieutenant, their boss,
their supervisor, who they had
a relationship with because
he was their supervisor,
had disappeared in
a flash of a light.
And they couldn't
understand that,
nor could anyone
else at that point.
>> EMERY: Were there any
specific claims on the duration
of his absence?
>> DOTY: Well, here's
the strange part of it.
Five years later, exactly five
years later, August 11, 1975,
a security policeman
was walking a perimeter
and he sees this person
walking towards him
and this person had a badge on.
He was in an Air Force uniform,
displaying first Lieutenant
bars, an Air Force
utility uniform.
And he immediately
challenged that person.
And this person was, as the
security policeman related
later, was in a daze.
He didn't know where he was.
So when the security
policeman walked up to him,
challenging him with an M16
pointing at Lieutenant Anderson,
he noticed that he
did have a badge on.
So as a security policeman
looked at that badge,
that badge was an old
badge that expired
in 1973, two years earlier.
So he immediately took
Lieutenant Anderson in custody,
turned him around
and took him back
to the main gate area of
the weapons storage area.
Now, in the five
years that had passed,
the nuclear weapons
storage area had changed.
They'd put-- they
reconstructed the perimeter.
They reconstructed
the main gate area.
They call it the Sally port.
As you come in, one gate closes.
So you're trapped in
one area until you're
cleared to get through.
And that's a new-- that
was a new facility.
It was built in the five
years since his disappearance.
When he walked-- when the
security policeman walked him up
to the front area, notifying his
supervisor who was a security
police master sergeant--
I found this guy in
there, and he's not
on the entry control log and
he has a badge that expired.
They don't know how
he got in there.
There was a senior master
sergeant at nuclear weapons
technician that recognized him.
He said, that's
Lieutenant Anderson.
>> EMERY: Oh, goodness.
>> DOTY: And so they-- of
course, the security policeman,
they didn't know who
Lieutenant Anderson was.
OK.
How did he get in here?
Well, the senior
master didn't know.
He said, I don't know,
but he used to work here.
He disappeared five years ago.
>> EMERY: Was he found on
the outside of the perimeter
of the base or on the inside?
>> DOTY: He was
found in the inside.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> DOTY: Meaning he had to get
through three layers of security
to get in there.
So nobody saw beam of light.
The security
policeman that found
him, the first thing
they asked him was--
did you see a beam of light?
Did you see-- nothing.
He just-- I just saw him
walking up towards me
and he was in a daze.
He seemed like he was out of it.
His eyes weren't focusing on me.
That's when he brought
him-- they brought him up
to the front.
Now they have a dilemma.
How did this-- how did this guy
who had been missing five years
end up in the same area
that he disappeared from?
>> EMERY: Well, is he talking?
Is he saying, hey,
guys or anything?
>> DOTY: He didn't say a word
until the medical personnel got
there.
He seemed like he was out of it.
So they called the ambulance.
But the security police
maintain custody of him.
He was transported to the
local clinic at that--
and five years later, the Air
Force had a bigger clinic there.
In 1970, they had
a little clinic,
but anyway, they transported him
to the clinic to be examined,
and the doctor in the
emergency room of the clinic
said he is suffering
from a traumatic episode,
and he can't understand exactly
what because Lieutenant Anderson
hasn't been able to talk.
He hadn't said a word.
But they couldn't get anything
out of him other than he's--
and plus, one of the things that
which was somewhat ironic when
he took him into
the clinic, he's
in an Air Force
uniform with a security
badge, and he has
an ID card on him.
His ID card had expired
a couple of years before.
And they're saying we can't find
any medical records on this guy.
This guy is assigned
to this base,
and the senior Master Sergeant
who was with him at the time,
along with the security police,
as saying he was five years ago,
but he disappeared.
Now, you can imagine
trying to explain
all this to a doctor, a
captain, Air Force captain, who
was a doctor, and he was trying
to make sense of all this
and nobody was making
any sense of it.
>> EMERY: No.
>> DOTY: So anyways, the
doctor examined him and said
he's suffered some
kind of trauma--
all I can say, because
he's not talking.
So then he was transported
over to the OSI office.
Now, the OSI, none of the agents
that had been there in 1970
were still stationed there.
So these are all
brand new agents.
All new agents.
So the senior Master
Sergeant explained to these--
to the two agents exactly
what had happened.
So then they had to get
in there-- the records
and find the file and
the case and so forth.
And they realized-- now,
at McChord Air Force Base,
there were two OSI units
there was a district,
a District 20, which
covered a large area,
was the district
headquarters, and then
they had a base
investigative detachment
or the OSI agents that
investigated everything
on the base.
They decided to contact the
district headquarters, which
was some distance away,
a few blocks away,
and contact the special
projects people.
Well, there was an agent
still there working
in the special projects.
He had gone and came
back, but he said,
you got to be kidding me.
You got Lieutenant Anderson?
So he went over there.
The first thing they did was
they took his fingerprints.
They had to verify the
fact that this guy was,
in fact, Lieutenant Anderson,
because he's gone five years.
He shows up in the storage area.
Where the heck has he been?
Is this really him?
Is he in another
body I mean, they
were thinking of all
these other things.
They took his
fingerprints, matched.
So then they started talking to
him, and eventually he opened up
and he told his story.
>> EMERY: What did he
reveal to the OSI agents?
>> DOTY: He said that he
remembers being inside.
And this is the thing that
really confused everyone.
Lieutenant Anderson didn't
realize he was gone.
Five years.
He said I was walking over
to a toolbox to get a tool,
and he named the
airman first class
that he was getting a tool for.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> DOTY: And he said, and
suddenly, I blacked out,
and I find myself floating,
and then I'm in some kind
of container, a round container.
And I felt really dizzy because
it felt like I was spinning.
And the next thing I know,
I'm on this rectangle table.
I was completely nude.
And I looked around and I
see these beings These--
he called them humanoids.
He said they weren't
more than 4 to--
4 and 1/2 to 5 feet tall.
They have large heads.
They don't have any ears.
They had large eyes, slits for
nose, a small slit for a mouth,
and large fingers,
but no thumbs.
>> EMERY: What color were they?
>> DOTY: They were gray.
Dark gray in color.
He said what he noticed was
there was a platform that some
of them were on that
were walking down,
and he noticed that their arms
were proportionately longer
than they should be.
Their arms reach down
to the mid calves.
And he thought at first
they were monkeys,
and he couldn't figure
out where he was.
And he started talking.
He asked him, where am I?
And all of a sudden, he
didn't hear any voices
except in his head,
and his voices
kept telling him to calm down.
You're not being harmed.
We will not hurt you.
But over a period of
time-- and he doesn't know.
He didn't have any
way to gauge time.
They examined him.
He said, from head to toe.
I mean, they were spending
a lot of time examining him,
poking him.
They had instruments
that were over his face.
They had things that
went into his eyes.
They had two-- he had a gadget
that went into his nose,
but he didn't feel any pain.
He never felt any pain.
And then he felt
pain in his foot.
And he realized that they had
taken a toenail out of his foot.
But there was no blood.
Then he felt dizzy again.
And then he found
himself in a chair,
a metal chair with a big brace
over him so he couldn't move.
And he was looking
around and all he sees
are these beings,
these humanoids.
And they weren't talking
to him in a voice.
They were talking to
him through his head.
And they started asking
all these questions
about what he did.
And they kept talking about the
destructive metal containers.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> DOTY: And he didn't
understand at first--
what are you talking about?
And he's talking in a voice.
But they seem to be
understanding him,
but they're not
responding in a voice,
they're responding to his head.
He kept asking them I don't
know what you're talking about.
What metal containers?
And they said the destructive
metal containers that you make.
And then he
realized, oh, they're
talking about the
nuclear weapons.
>> EMERY: Right.
>> DOTY: And then he asked them,
are you talking about nuclear
weapons?
They didn't seem to know what
that was which was odd to him.
And he kept asking
them, where am I?
Where am I?
And they were responding in
his head, you're with us,
you're safe.
And so over a period
of time, and he
doesn't know how much time,
they kept asking him questions.
Finally, he said, I'm not going
to answer any of your questions
anymore.
I can't talk about that.
I don't know who you
are and you ask me
questions that are classified.
They didn't seem to understand
what he was talking about.
The next thing he knew that
there was this big metal
ring that came over his head.
And when it came over his
head, he couldn't see.
It was like he went blind.
And then he started feeling
strange pulses, almost
like electrical
pulses in his brain.
And then he started seeing
things, all these strange things
in his eyes.
But he had his eyes open,
he said, but he couldn't
see except for these strange--
yeah.
A strange appearances
in front of his eyes.
Illusions, he called them.
And then-- and he didn't know
how long this was happening.
And then suddenly,
this ring came over--
came back-- went up above his
head and he could see again.
And then he realized,
ah-- now, he's so smart.
He's a Lieutenant
in the Air Force.
He went to college.
>> EMERY: Yeah.
>> DOTY: He had
some intelligence.
He-- then he realized
they just read my mind.
And then he realized that
these things were not humans.
They were probably
from another planet,
and he's probably
at that planet.
So then they took him
into another room,
and it was like another ball.
But he saw a lot
of these beings,
humanoids all around him.
It was like an
amphitheater, he called it.
But one was in front of him.
This one in front of him didn't
look like the other ones.
It had an almost a human face.
And he said it had ears
and nose, a mouth and eyes.
He said it looked almost human,
but when it brought its hands
up, he noticed that the hands--
the digits were the
same as the other ones,
although this particular
humanoid was bigger.
But this humanoid spoke
English and started
asking all these questions over
and over and over and over.
And then he wasn't
answering these questions--
>> EMERY: The same questions.
>> DOTY: The same question
over and over and over.
What were you doing?
How do you make these
destructive devices?
Why do you make these
He said, I'm not talking to you.
Then this humanoid stood up
and got really close to him
and said, you cannot
deceive us anymore.
You cannot deceive us anymore.
So then he figures he has
no choice but to tell him
everything they wanted to know.
So he did.
And then after he told him,
these other humanoids that
were sitting in this, like,
amphitheater disappeared.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> DOTY: Now he's
in there by himself,
and he feels himself
being floating.
It's like he was
floating up in the air
and down back on a table,
up in the air and back down
on the table.
He couldn't figure out
if he was in something
that was moving, causing
him to be jerked around
and then he went to sleep.
And then he woke up and he was
inside the weapons storage area.
Now--
>> EMERY: OK.
>> DOTY: He says, I figured--
when I woke, I was dazed and
I couldn't focus my eyes.
It took me some time
to focus my eyes.
He said, I remember the
security policeman talking to me
and I'm trying to
respond, but I couldn't.
But I thought, well,
how did I just get out
of the maintenance building?
I'm out here in the middle
of the storage area.
>> EMERY: And that all happened
and now he's been gone five
years?
>> DOTY: He's been
gone five years.
And so when he goes--
when he makes it back,
he's trying to
talk, but he can't.
And he was trying to
tell him, let me go back
into the maintenance building.
And when he went
to the hospital,
the doctor is talking
to him and he looked up
beyond the doctor in his
calendar in the wall.
And now anybody who's
been in the military,
you know that there's
this calendar system.
You have three different
calendars-- the month
before, the current month
and the month after.
And he looked at a circle and
he noticed it was August 11.
Then he looked at the
year and it was 1975.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> DOTY: He became very
disgruntled, scared.
He said, it can't be 19--
1975.
I'm in a dream.
>> EMERY: Sure.
>> DOTY: And then
eventually he did--
he said-- he spoke to
the doctor, saying,
I think I'm in a dream
because it can't be 1975.
The moment we got
over to the OSI office
and they started
questioning him,
he said, I was in the
maintenance building
and I went to get a
tool and I don't know
how I got out into the field.
But then he told the OSI
agents his story and--
>> EMERY: How they
perceive that?
>> DOTY: Well, you got to stop
and think of the OSI agent.
Now, this particular
OSI agent had
been there when this happened.
He interviewed--
>> EMERY: That's good.
>> DOTY: The witnesses and
he knew that something had
happened.
But the big question was
where was he for five years.
And he says, I couldn't have
been gone for five years.
Number one, I have
the same uniform on.
I can't remember sleeping
and I can't remember eating.
So I couldn't have
been gone five years.
But he hadn't aged any.
So the dilemma for OSI and the
dilemma for the United States
Air Force is where is--
is this: We know
he worked there.
We know he was there
inside that igloo in 1970.
>> EMERY: Yeah.
>> DOTY: He shows
up five years later.
Where was he?
>> EMERY: How did this impact
Lieutenant Anderson's life?
>> DOTY: They gave him
a medical discharge.
He was sent to Sheppard Air
Force Base, the psychic--
Air Force psychiatric hospital
at Wichita Falls, Texas.
>> EMERY: Yes.
>> DOTY: And I'm sure
you know where that's at.
And--
>> EMERY: Went to school there.
Yeah.
>> DOTY: And he was there
for like, 4 to 5 months.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> DOTY: And he went through
a psychological evaluation.
And they realized
that at some point,
he can't remain
in the Air Force.
And so he was
medically discharged.
And he was medically
discharged in 1976.
>> EMERY: Was there any concerns
with OSI that maybe he was
programmed when he got
back to do a mission?
>> DOTY: Absolutely.
They were convinced and
they came to the conclusion
that he had been abducted
by an extraterrestrial.
He probably went to some
kind of a time warp,
getting from one
place to another.
The time period on Earth
went by five years.
>> EMERY: Sure.
>> DOTY: His time period was
just maybe a matter of hours or
>> EMERY: A couple hours--
>> DOTY: Maybe a few days.
>> EMERY: Makes sense.
Yeah.
>> DOTY: And that he was
probably programmed to do
something.
And the Air Force Separation
Board, as you know,
they have to go through
this separation board--
was all classified.
It was at Randolph
Air Force Base.
And they decided they can't
keep him in the Air Force
because they can
never trust him.
>> EMERY: No way.
>> DOTY: So he was medically
discharged, and he was--
all his medical care,
psychological care
was turned over to the
Veterans Administration.
>> EMERY: So was he monitored
after that and his private life
because of what he went through?
>> DOTY: Yes.
When I spoke with
him, he said he
was visited for a number
of years periodically
and says he didn't
say it was routine.
But he said periodically
there would be two OSI agents.
Later on, he called them
intelligence officers
that would come and
talk to him at his home.
>> EMERY: Sure.
>> DOTY: He had to fill out
a form and mail it to the Air
Force.
I'm not sure where it
went every time he moved.
He ended up buying
a car dealership.
And he worked at
>> EMERY: OK.
>> DOTY: Away from what he
had done in the Air Force.
And I think they probably--
although I saw him five years
before he passed away.
He's passed away now.
But during the time I
interviewed him with the other
OSI agent that had ran
this case back in the 70s,
he told me that they stopped
seeing him several years before.
So he was up there
in age, and I'm
sure because of what he went
through and what he told them,
he could have easily
been programmed by them.
>> EMERY: Yeah, of course.
Yeah.
>> DOTY: Because we didn't
know their technology.
We didn't know what
the extraterrestrials
were capable of doing.
They could have
planted something
in his body or his head.
>> EMERY: Sure.
>> DOTY: That if he went
back into the Air Force,
maybe they were trying to steal
a nuclear weapon or something
to that effect.
>> EMERY: Rick, when you
last saw Lieutenant Anderson,
did he mention anything
about any visits from
extraterrestrials?
>> DOTY: That's one of the
questions I asked him towards
the end of the interview.
And this was a 5.5-hour
interview at a Holiday Inn.
I asked him, I said, did
these extraterrestrials
come back to visit you?
He said never.
>> EMERY: Wow.
OK.
>> DOTY: He said for a
few years afterwards,
he had some strange dreams.
And this is something he did,
which is kind of peculiar,
but I can understand
why he did it.
He never got married.
And he had his own
reasons for that.
OK.
>> EMERY: Right.
>> DOTY: But when
he went to bed,
he would strap
himself into the bed.
>> EMERY: Oh, my goodness.
Horrifying--
>> DOTY: And he eventually was
able to find something that
would strap--
strap him in with a padlock.
Because he was afraid--
>> EMERY: That they're
going to come get him--
>> DOTY: That they
were going to come.
He read a book.
He-- don't remember who the
author of, maybe Dr. Mack
or somebody about abductions.
And he was afraid that they
would come back because he would
have these strange dreams.
And these dreams were
very vivid to him.
And so he thought, well, I'm
going to strap myself into bed.
But he can never remember
them coming back.
>> EMERY: Rick, how was his
personal life affected by this
five-year absence?
>> DOTY: Well, first of
all, when he got back,
he came back after five years--
>> EMERY: Right.
>> DOTY: He wanted to
contact his parents,
but they didn't allow him to do
that because Air Force told his
parents he was on a Special
Operations mission and he went
missing.
That's what the Air
Force told his parents.
And they eventually,
after a few years,
the Air Force told him
that he was missing
and his body would
not be recovered.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> DOTY: Now, five years later,
his mother and father are still
alive in Davenport, Iowa, and
the first thing he wanted to do
was call his mom and say and
dad and say, I'm all right.
But they didn't
tell him initially
that they'd told his
parents that he was dead,
but they told him that
you've been gone five years.
And so eventually, the
Air Force told his parents
that he was
recovered and that he
was in a hospital in
Wichita Falls, Texas.
Of course, his
parents came down.
He had a cover
story to tell them.
And he told them
that cover story
that he was on a mission
in Southeast Asia.
Now, remember this
time the Vietnam
War was going on during
this time period from 1970
to about '75.
And so he said, I was
over in Southeast Asia
on a classified
mission, and I was gone.
And now I'm back and I can't
explain to you what I did.
So that was a cover
story for his parents.
>> EMERY: Rick, from the other
OSI files you've been engaged
with, is there anything that
stands out that you've heard
this before or that it's unique
in a way that's associated with
another case?
>> DOTY: There were some other
cases that involved missing
time, but not five years.
>> EMERY: Not five years, right.
>> DOTY: Yeah.
I think the most that I know
about was a few months that I'd
read somebody who was
abducted and they were gone.
They thought an hour, but they
were gone a few months, but not
five years.
I've never heard that.
>> EMERY: All right.
Well, it's a very fascinating
and compelling story.
Rick, thank you so much
for breaking that file out
and sharing it with
us on the show.
>> DOTY: You're very welcome.
>> EMERY: I'm Emery Smith,
and this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]